README.md, before:

# elegoo_moonraker
Modified elegoo neptune 4 plus/max's (works with N4 and N4Pro) moonraker to support thumbnails for Prusa slicer, add support for Orca slicer, Slic3r, Slic3rPE, SuperSlicer
*No longer requires post-processing for PrusaSlicer, OrcaSlicer, and SuperSlicer

Backup your original ~/moonraker/moonraker/components/file_manager/metadata.py before copying this version over. **Copy both metadata.py and lib_col_pic.py** to the ~/moonraker/moonraker/components/file_manager/ folder.  After copying the file over using winscp or any other sftp software, reboot the machine.

*Note: For those that may not know. username: **mks** and password: **makerbase**


You should now see the correct information and thumbnails in fluidd and the elegoo touchscreen. This does not update existing files, only files processed after the update.

![orca_1](https://github.com/VBitsHub/elegoo_moonraker/assets/62845219/207207ef-c9b5-4514-9a51-ad72684ecd93)
![20240124_140841](https://github.com/VBitsHub/elegoo_moonraker/assets/62845219/c4264911-af27-4be2-8b8a-9e9892b9fece)



-----------------
Update 1/19/2024: 
- Updated code to use Pillow instead of PyQT6 so people do not have to build/install PyQT6
- Bug fix for thumbnail miniature 32x32 creation.
- Merged slic3r and slic3rPE
- Added Support for SuperSlicer
- Required Files to copy to machine are: metadata.py and lib_col_pic.py
- Select PNG for output and put any resolution for the image. For example: 300x300 or 500x500, Metadata.py will do the rest.
- For OrcaSlicer you can select either PNG or colpic (colpic requires both 200x200, 160x160)
- Updated update_metadata.sh to reflect adding lib_col_pic.py

-----------------
Update 1/18/2024: 
- Updated to process PNG images for touchscreen on elegoo neptune 4. Prusa and Orca thumbnails no longer need to run any post-processing scripts, select PNG for output and use any resolution. For example 300x300 or 500x500.
- Requires building/installing PyQT6 for armbian.

-----------------
Update 1/15/2024: 
- PR and merge has been completed https://github.com/SoftFever/OrcaSlicer/pull/3647, should be available in future updates to OrcaSlicer. 

-----------------
Update 1/11/2024: 
- Made a request to SoftFever to change the background to the color used in the neptuneTSfix instead of bright white (https://github.com/SoftFever/OrcaSlicer/pull/3647). 
- Also made the changes myself in the current v2.0.0-dev build. If you can't wait for an official update. You can download the one dll that I compiled today in the releases section.
- To use, backup your existing OrcaSlicer.dll in your Orcaslicer folder than  replace with the one in the releases section.

-----------------
Update 1/9/2024: 
- Added an updater than can be run on the printer to update the metadata.py with the current one on github if needed. Just place in your /home/mks/ folder. You may need to run "chmod 777 update_metadata.py" afterwards if you cannot execute it.

-----------------
Update 1/8/2024: 
- Finally had time to install v1.9.0, didn't work for me out of box like it did the few that messaged me, but was able to locate the issue.
- Updated metadata.py to support searching for gimage and simage in footer_data to fix touchscreen not showing. You must select ColPic for "Format of G-Code thumbnails" and define the G-Code Thumbnail sizes as: 200x200, 160x160. You need to add BOTH separated with a comma.
                 
-----------------
Update 1/6/2024: 
- NeptuneTSFix is no longer needed if using version 1.9.0+ of OrcaSlicer. Select ColPic for "Format of G-Code thumbnails"

~~If you wish to see the thumbnail on the touchscreen, download the neptuneTSfix.exe under releases and add it to post processing for Prusa and/or Orca~~.
NeptuneTSFix is based off of Molodos Neptune Cura
lib_col_pic.py was used from https://github.com/Molodos/ElegooNeptuneThumbnails-Prusa

Commit message:

Added filament cost, model height, model weight
Forgot to push to github last month.

Added filament cost, model height, model weight

README.md, after:

# elegoo_moonraker
Modified elegoo neptune 4 plus/max's (works with N4 and N4Pro) moonraker to support thumbnails for Prusa slicer, add support for Orca slicer, Slic3r, Slic3rPE, SuperSlicer
*No longer requires post-processing for PrusaSlicer, OrcaSlicer, and SuperSlicer

Backup your original ~/moonraker/moonraker/components/file_manager/metadata.py before copying this version over. **Copy both metadata.py and lib_col_pic.py** to the ~/moonraker/moonraker/components/file_manager/ folder.  After copying the file over using winscp or any other sftp software, reboot the machine.

*Note: For those that may not know the username and password to access the machine it is as follows. username: **mks** and password: **makerbase**


You should now see the correct information and thumbnails in fluidd and the elegoo touchscreen. This does not update existing files, only files processed after the update

![orca_1](https://github.com/VBitsHub/elegoo_moonraker/assets/62845219/207207ef-c9b5-4514-9a51-ad72684ecd93)
![20240124_140841](https://github.com/VBitsHub/elegoo_moonraker/assets/62845219/c4264911-af27-4be2-8b8a-9e9892b9fece)


-----------------
Update 3/30/2024
- Forgot to push previous update. Those that requested the features and tested it, no need to update as it is the same code.

-----------------
Update 2/6/2024:
- Optimized and cleaned up some of the code
- Added some requested text on the image such as cost, total project height, and total filament used in grams.
- If you do not want costs to show USD symbol, but in your native currency. Modify lines 502 and 520, to change from $ to whatever your currency symbol is.

-----------------
Update 1/19/2024: 
- Updated code to use Pillow instead of PyQT6 so people do not have to build/install PyQT6
- Bug fix for thumbnail miniature 32x32 creation.
- Merged slic3r and slic3rPE
- Added Support for SuperSlicer
- Required Files to copy to machine are: metadata.py and lib_col_pic.py
- Select PNG for output and put any resolution for the image. For example: 300x300 or 500x500, Metadata.py will do the rest.
- For OrcaSlicer you can select either PNG or colpic (colpic requires both 200x200, 160x160)
- Updated update_metadata.sh to reflect adding lib_col_pic.py

-----------------
Update 1/18/2024: 
- Updated to process PNG images for touchscreen on elegoo neptune 4. Prusa and Orca thumbnails no longer need to run any post-processing scripts, select PNG for output and use any resolution. For example 300x300 or 500x500.
- Requires building/installing PyQT6 for armbian.

-----------------
Update 1/15/2024: 
- PR and merge has been completed https://github.com/SoftFever/OrcaSlicer/pull/3647, should be available in future updates to OrcaSlicer. 

-----------------
Update 1/11/2024: 
- Made a request to SoftFever to change the background to the color used in the neptuneTSfix instead of bright white (https://github.com/SoftFever/OrcaSlicer/pull/3647). 
- Also made the changes myself in the current v2.0.0-dev build. If you can't wait for an official update. You can download the one dll that I compiled today in the releases section.
- To use, backup your existing OrcaSlicer.dll in your Orcaslicer folder than  replace with the one in the releases section.

-----------------
Update 1/9/2024: 
- Added an updater than can be run on the printer to update the metadata.py with the current one on github if needed. Just place in your /home/mks/ folder. You may need to run "chmod 777 update_metadata.py" afterwards if you cannot execute it.

-----------------
Update 1/8/2024: 
- Finally had time to install v1.9.0, didn't work for me out of box like it did the few that messaged me, but was able to locate the issue.
- Updated metadata.py to support searching for gimage and simage in footer_data to fix touchscreen not showing. You must select ColPic for "Format of G-Code thumbnails" and define the G-Code Thumbnail sizes as: 200x200, 160x160. You need to add BOTH separated with a comma.
                 
-----------------
Update 1/6/2024: 
- NeptuneTSFix is no longer needed if using version 1.9.0+ of OrcaSlicer. Select ColPic for "Format of G-Code thumbnails"

~~If you wish to see the thumbnail on the touchscreen, download the neptuneTSfix.exe under releases and add it to post processing for Prusa and/or Orca~~.
NeptuneTSFix is based off of Molodos Neptune Cura
lib_col_pic.py was used from https://github.com/Molodos/ElegooNeptuneThumbnails-Prusa
